Reframe signing signatures (#2489)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-message-signatures.md

  "@authority";req "@method";req "@path";req "@query";req \
  "content-digest";req "content-type";req "content-length";req)\
  ;created=1618884479;keyid="test-key-ecc-p256"
Signature: reqres=:zU7zd1MN56WapeNxfVNleCx5rFxBhBcZngnX4d+MurOk3tNu\
  3rFfTFnwhglZH8qNBoygvhVMfQq9wIvLqyVNog==:

{"busy": true, "message": "Your call is very important to us"}
~~~

Note that the ECDSA algorithm in use here is non-deterministic, meaning a different signature value will be created every time the algorithm is run. The signature value provided here can be validated against the given keys, but newly-generated signature values are not expected to match the example. See {{security-nondeterministic}}.

Applications signing a response to a signed request SHOULD sign all of the components of the request signature value to provide sufficient coverage and protection against a class of collision attacks, as discussed in {{security-sign-signature}}. The server in this example has included all components listed in the Signature-Input of the client's signature on the request in the response signature, in addition to components of the response.

> While it is syntactically possible to sign another signature on a message, applications SHOULD NOT sign the Signature and Signature-Input fields of the request, as shown in this example. Doing so does not provide transitive coverage of covered components and is susceptible to attack as discussed in {{security-sign-signature}}. In some applications, signing these fields of a request can indicate to the client that the server has processed an input signature, but such applications need to carefully specify such usage in addition to ensuring sufficient coverage of the messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While it is syntactically possible to include a signature component from a request as an input to a response signature, this is NOT RECOMMENDED. This is because signatures of signatures do not provide the transitive coverage of covered components as one might expect and is susceptible to various attacks as discussed in {{security-sign-signature}}.
```

Rationale: I think NOT RECOMMENDED is a bit clearer than SHOULD NOT in this case. I worry the last sentence muddies the water a little bit so I think the text is stronger without it.

Date: Tue, 20 Apr 2021 02:07:56 GMT
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 18
Forwarded: for=192.0.2.123;host=example.com;proto=https
Content-Digest: sha-512=:WZDPaVn/7XgHaAy8pmojAkGWoRx2UFChF41A2svX+T\
  aPm+AbwAgBWnrIiYllu7BNNyealdVLvRwEmTHWXvJwew==:
Signature-Input: sig1=("@method" "@authority" "@path" \
    "content-digest" "content-type" "content-length")\
    ;created=1618884475;keyid="test-key-ecc-p256", \
  proxy_sig=("@method" "@authority" "@path" "content-digest" \
    "content-type" "content-length" "forwarded")\
    ;created=1618884480;keyid="test-key-rsa";alg="rsa-v1_5-sha256"\
    ;expires=1618884540
Signature: sig1=:X5spyd6CFnAG5QnDyHfqoSNICd+BUP4LYMz2Q0JXlb//4Ijpzp\
    +kve2w4NIyqeAuM7jTDX+sNalzA8ESSaHD3A==:, \
  proxy_sig=:S6ZzPXSdAMOPjN/6KXfXWNO/f7V6cHm7BXYUh3YD/fRad4BCaRZxP+\
    JH+8XY1I6+8Cy+CM5g92iHgxtRPz+MjniOaYmdkDcnL9cCpXJleXsOckpURl49G\
    wiyUpZ10KHgOEe11sx3G2gxI8S0jnxQB+Pu68U9vVcasqOWAEObtNKKZd8tSFu7\
    LB5YAv0RAGhB8tmpv7sFnIm9y+7X5kXQfi8NMaZaA8i2ZHwpBdg7a6CMfwnnrtf\
    lzvZdXAsD3LH2TwevU+/PBPv0B6NMNk93wUs/vfJvye+YuI87HU38lZHowtznbL\
    Vdp770I6VHR6WfgS9ddzirrswsE1w5o0LV/g==:

{"hello": "world"}
~~~

> While the proxy could additionally include the client's Signature value and Signature-Input fields from the original message in the new signature's covered components, in this example the proxy does not do this due to known problems in signing signature values as discussed in {{security-sign-signature}}. In some applications, the proxy is a highly trusted component and signing an input signature can be used as a way for the proxy to indicate to the origin server that the proxy has read and verified the client's signature in the original message context. While the origin server may not be able to directly verify this original signature, it can verify that the proxy has vouched for the signature's validity. Use of this approach should be subject to careful analysis of the trust relationship between the different components of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the proxy could additionally include the client's Signature value and Signature-Input fields from the original message in the new signature's covered components, in this example the proxy does not do this due to the weaknesses of signing signature values as discussed in {{security-sign-signature}}. If the proxy needs to convey to the origin that it has successfully checked the client's signature, the application SHOULD define a header to indicate so and ensure that the header and all relevant components from the client's request are included within the proxy's signature.    
```

Rationale: I think this is a little clearer on the right path for future adoption, but still compatible with the approach taken by existing applications.
